let's take a look at day five.
So we're gonna focus today on creating
some creating custom chat modes and we
talked about, you know,
a couple of different ways to.
Control AI generated output and so the
third one is a custom chat modes and I'll
do a kind of a recap and a comparison
between the three and when to use them.
Then we'll go back to our project that we
were working on and start to do some
implementation.
And use the all of the the.
The the the instruction files and the
profiles and and create a custom chat
mode to help us with this implementation
piece and then we'll see how far we can
take that application for that calculator
following our vertical slicing approach
and see if we can produce some working
code and.
And see how how well the AI generation
can actually move us forward in in terms
of producing this, you know,
writing this app and then we'll just do a
wrap up and some open QA on anything else
that you have.
On your mind and that that should be the
the end of the course.
So let's let's move forward.
Um.
So let's talk about instruction files
versus prompt files versus a a custom
chat modes.
We'll compare those three approaches for
AI software development.
So instruction files are basically have
persistent behavioral guidelines.
Prompt files are executable task
templates and custom chat modes are
specialized conversational context.
Each is they serve a each serve a
different purpose in our workflow.
Instruction files or persistent
configuration files that define AI
behavior patterns applied automatically
across multiple interactions.
So these establish consistent working
standards and constraints.
They're repository wide or context
specific.
Specific active across all those relevant
interactions define how AI should work
and not what to do.
So the instruction file structure is,
as you've seen,
have core instructions and code
generation rules. So we've gone over that,
seen those quite a seen quite a bit of
that use cases for instruction files are
for coding standards.
Security policies, quality gates,
technological technology constraints.
So here we can specify what we want,
how we want the code to look,
what policies, for example,
like security needs to follow.
How to define testing and review
requirements and what framework and tools
to use?
Yeah.
So what are our prompt files?
Prompt files are are structured templates
specific for repeatable tasks.
They contain detailed instructions for
particular objectives and design for
execution in a a I chat interfaces.
The key characteristics are their single
focus stack flow, stack or workflow.
Run on demand when needed to find what to
accomplish with specific steps.
Use cases for a prop file would be a code
generation,
create specific components or features,
documentation for creating docs,
doing code reviews or security audits,
refactor structure code improvements.
Examples would be to implement.
Implement a user authentication prompt,
generate test suite prompt to create a
deployment pipeline prompts.
And then custom chat modes are
pre-configured AI personalities for
specific domains.
They combine behavior roles with
specialized knowledge,
so provide contextual expertise for a
particular scenario.
Key characteristics are scope,
domain or domain or role specific
interactions,
rich background knowledge and constraints,
which is the context,
and their purpose act as specialized AI
experts for conversations.
Custom chat mode use cases are perfect
for things like domain expertise,
get special, get specialized knowledge,
role planning and that where the a access
a specific professional context switching
different perspectives on the same
problem.
Learning educational conversations with
expert personas so we can have a security
architect mode, a data expert mode,
a UX designer mode,
or go to all examples of what you would
use a chat custom chat mode for.
So here's a comparison matrix.
This describes what aspect that we're
talking about, what the,
what the instruction files,
how how those how that's affected
instruction files,
those same aspects for prompt files and
custom chat miles modes. So.
So when we look at the purpose,
they the instruction files define AI
behaviour. Their scope is repository wide,
their persistence is always active,
their usability is high across projects
and the complexity is there is they're
simple rules.
Prom files or they execute specific tasks,
so a single task or workflow on demand
execution.
High high task,
their reusability is high in terms of
task templates and I think we've seen
that a complexity is detailed procedures
and then custom chat modes provide that
specialized expertise,
a conversational content, a session based.
Medium.
The reasonability is medium because
they're role role specific and then they
contain rich contextual knowledge.
So here's a a a decision framework that
we can use to decide on what's
appropriate.
So you would want to use instruction
files when we need a consistent behavior
across all AI interactions,
enforcing organizational standards and
policies.
Setting up code conventions and quality
gates to finding security and appliance
requirements.
So use these when we have repeatable
structured tasks.
We need detailed step-by-step prompt
files, repeatable structured tasks,
need a detailed step-by-step instructions
and want to standardize complex workflows.
8.
Are building reusable automation
templates.
And use a custom chat modes where you
want to have specialized domain expertise
on AI to act as a specific professional
role,
exploring problems from different
perspectives,
learning or getting advice in specific
areas.
We can combine these approaches when
we're building comprehensive A I assisted
workflows and need to need both
consistency and specialisation managing
complex and multi-phase projects.
So if we.
It is a a layered integration approach
since we we've been actually approaching
this from the bottom up where we've
created instruction files with base
behaviour and prompt files to actually
execute or generate artifacts based on
that base behaviour.
And then we'll we'll talk today about how
to or talking today about how to use
custom chat modes for our our
conversational context.
So we end up with a result.
Let's say if we have a security architect
persona,
a security audit template and security
standards and coding rules.
We would end up with a specialized
security expert using standardized
processes and consistent with quality
standards.
Any questions so far?
So here's a a real-world integration
example.
The scenario is implementing a user
authentication piece.
The instruction files would provide the
the coding standards,
the testing requirements,
the documentation standards.
The prompt file that would execute the
implement would would we say implement
the Oauth 2 authentication system with a
step-by-step implementation guide and
then the custom chat mode offers a
security architect expertise.
Best practices and threat modeling
insights.
John, I have a question.
Sure.
So this chat mode,
is this something we build ourselves,
the custom chat mode or is that something
that a third party builds and we just use
it as a model plugged in?
Yeah,
I'm not aware of any third-party chat
modes.
I'm sure there's things that have been
published out there that would that you
might be able to take advantage of.
It's also something you can ask a copilot
to create for you and and say.
You know that you want an you want an a
chat mode.
You can say that I want a chat mode
that's using this persona that that can
help me accomplish this that has this
expertise and then it.
It will help you implement particular
pieces of code.
So.
So, so where does,
where does it get the expertise for that
persona?
Is that already known within the AI or is
that something somebody has to feed in
first? Like that's part I'm missing here.
It's what we're really doing is you're
constraining the AII down to specific
knowledge that you want it to actually
take advantage of.
So instead of having the AI open or
essentially available all of the
information that the A I because the.
Obviously the AI model has a huge range
of expertise.
What you're really saying is that this
particular chat mode is focusing only on
these particular expertises,
and the benefit of that is.
That it allows the A I to constrain and
focus on a particular problem with a
particular approach using particular
specific knowledge.
So you're not really adding that
expertise,
you're just which it really is focusing
the the A I on a specific set of skills.
OK, so every persona I can think of,
it already knows about it and it's just
But.
going to help me basically. OK,
sounds good. Thanks.
Correct. Right. Yeah.
So um.
So you instruction files,
we want to keep our instructions clear
and actionable.
We want to use the file patterns that
applies to to reduce to actually
constrain the scope so that they apply to
only. Well, if you use the star,
you know the star, star,
that gives you a very broad scope.
That means that it'll apply to all the
files.
Files,
but you can use to focus your instruction
files in specific areas of expertise.
You can version control and document
changes and test instructions effectively
regularly.
We've already talked about overly complex
or contradictory rules and we have look
at, you know,
we have guidance that would allow us or
we have essentially an A prompt file that
will allow us to examine that context and
identify issues or constraints with it.
We'd have to that we'd have to resolve
too many instructions, which is the,
you know,
the idea that we've got so many
instructions that we're kind to that were
basically taking up all of our all of our
token budget in our window.
We we want to avoid instructions that
conflict with our prompts and using a
hard coded values instead of parameters
in our instruction files.
We've seen how we've been able to
parameterize some of the.
Instruction files by having placeholders
with prompt files.
They include a comprehensive metadata and
provide clear context and requirements,
specify expected deliverables.
Include the verification steps.
Avoid a vague or ambiguous instructions,
missing prerequisite information,
and no successful criteria.
Overly complex single prompts, so.
As we've seen with some of the the
prompts that we created that they that
they perform their actions and specific
steps and then for custom chat modes,
defining clear expertise boundaries.
A rich contextual background,
establish A consistent personality or a
voice and include relevant constraints
and preferences and and then avoid
conflicting expertise claims to broad or
unfocused roles personality conflicts
that.
With a task needs missing essential
domain knowledge.
So kind of here.
Here's a getting started checklist.
It'll create your core instruction files
for your tech stack,
establish coding standards and quality
gates.
You would define security and compliance
requirements and test instruction file
effectiveness.
I would add to that also you would want
to start to look at at what the the token,
the token requirements are for for these
instruction files because there's they
can be applied so broadly.
And then in phase two,
we would add or identify repeatable
deployment development tasks,
create prompt files for common workflows,
build task specific execution templates
and validate those prompt file outputs.
Our next step would be to identify domain
expertise needs,
create the custom chat modes for key
roles, test conversational effectiveness,
document mode usage guidelines,
and then then we want finishing up with
combine approaches for complex workflows.
Establish some usage patterns, create,
create some training materials and
monitor and iterate on effectiveness.
So just to finish this up,
the instruction files are that
foundational layer.
The prompt files are the execution layer
and the chat modes are the expertise
layer.
So, so when we use these together,
we get higher quality,
consistent standards,
structured execution and expert knowledge.
Greater efficiency would be automated
workflows and specialized guidance.
Better outcomes for would be a
comprehensive approach to covers all
development aspects.
And the that we reduce our risk.
Um.
And today it becomes a true development
partner, just a code generator.
OK. So questions on any of that?
Where do I configure this custom chat
mode?
Is is that going to be an additional
entry next to agent ask and edit?
Uh.
Is that where it goes?
Yes, that's where it goes.
All right, so what's next here?
So we've done that.
So let's go and work on creating some
chat modes.
So let's switch back to our project.
Oh, John,
can I ask another question before we get
into that?
Yeah, sure.
So just going back to the instruction
files and the apply to field that kind of
lets you specify on the file system like
what we are targeting, right?
Yeah.
Are there any other types of criteria
that we can specify like?
Right.
Target this specific person or Active
Directory group or any other types of
criteria?
Or is it the applied to the is is applied
Yeah.
to the only one that we can use?
Well, let's see. Where am I here?
Let's open this up and say.
Mhm.
So I'm just asking.
No, I think it's copilot actually.
Um.
'Cause there's there's actually you can
use multiple different things for this.
We we use primarily that just the files.
Oh.
Someone has a comment.
I I get the files.
I I wasn't sure if there is another way
to specify any other types of wildcards
or expressions that target the
instructions differently.
And maybe this question doesn't even make
sense, I'm not sure.
OK, director is in complex patterns.
OK, yeah, this is fine.
This is all about wild cards and
targeting different types of files. OK,
so let me let's table this question.
Right.
Sure.
Let me ask you a different question.
This is about best practices.
So let's say you want to have developer
specific instructions.
What is the best strategy for handling
that within the shared repo?
Let's say two of us are asking similar
questions and we expect different types
Um.
of answers based on who we are and what
we are doing.
So what is the best strategy for handling
developers specific instructions within a
shared grateful?
Well, well.
I think the primary way that I would I
would do that was that you're allowed to
to create in on your own your own
workstation in your in your home folder
an instruction file that'll apply just to
you.
OK.
Right. Yeah. So yeah, I like.
What if like what if I don't wanna check
that into the repo?
And then it won't because it's outside of
the scope of the repo.
So if I if I create an instruction,
I briefly went over this earlier in the
course where you can define an
instruction file that resides only on
your machine.
And it applies specific instructions that
are only for you.
So then that's added to your context
automatically and it will it will
OK. Sorry, I missed that. OK.
respected. Yeah, so I.
OK, I I was just wondering like, OK,
so it sounds like there's a way to pull
OK.
in instructions from outside the
workspace of the repo, correct?
Right. And and the the challenge,
the challenge is that you know they you
OK.
have the project specific ones which only
apply to that project and not in the and
and that project only and then you have
this personal instruction file which you
can have.
On your local machine,
but that is not shared.
So the so when you have a situation where
you have multiple projects,
how do you how do you come up with a
solution that allows you to apply those
shared instruction files?
Across all of the projects, well,
the only thing that that applies across
all projects are the instruction,
the personal instruction file.
So you would have to make sure that
everybody's personal instruction file
contain those those specific instructions.
And the personal instruction file is not
very flexible.
You can't have more than one,
so therefore you have to put all your
instructions into into a single file and
it makes it much more difficult to to
work with.
Whereas the since the project ones are
specific to a project, they are by design.
Apply across the board.
So you'd have to come up with a strategy
that allows you to maintain that.
If you don't,
you're not dealing with multiple projects
in terms of folder,
everything's under a single folder
structure.
Then you don't have really have a problem.
But as soon as you start to say I've got
different solutions in different folders,
you now have to deal with how you're
going to you're going to span those
folders because each project is going to
have its own dot GitHub folder.
And and we've talked about a couple of
ways in which you can address that,
which is, you know,
using simlinks to inject into a project
folders from a different repository or
using, you know,
we suggested that we might use a sub
projects or sub repos in.
Yeah, I know. OK. I remember that part.
All right. I yeah, we'll figure it out.
Good.
Thanks.
Sure.
All right,
so let's switch over to our project.
Here.
And let's talk about what kinds of custom
chat modes might be applicable here.
But the first thing I would say,
let's clear our context and close our
files.
And just like we've done in the past.
Let's let's create an.
And instruction file.
Uh, to guide.
The creation of chat notes.
Chat loads.
And then let's get started on that.
And the reason I'm adding this to or or
or suggesting that we create this is that
we've done this for both instruction
files and for prompt files is to create
some guidance on how we want those
structures, those files to actually.
How we want them structured to what they
want, what we want them to contain.
And the purpose of that is that make sure
that we're not leaving out anything and
and that they can the chat mode files
that we create here will be consistent in
terms of how they're.
Defined.
So here we'll see that it's now reading
our AI assisted output instructions,
the copilot instructions, so that we are.
So that the chat mode itself that the
instruction file itself for building
these chat modes will.
The respect those the constraints that
we've defined in those files.
Now it's looking for a specific
instruction files.
To understand what it needs to do.
And.
Now let's look at the create instruction
files instructions, which then will allow.
Well,
we'll ask the AI to actually create an an
instruction file that conforms with our
definition of instruction files.
So it thinks it has all it needs in order
to be able to do that.
So we should see a a file we can review
in just a minute.
Any questions on what we're trying to do
here?
I think it's fairly consistent with what
we've done. Um.
For for instruction files themselves and
for prompt files and yeah.
I I do,
I do have a question sort of about these
like,
I mean this is kind of going back sort of
what Peter was saying before about the
front matter of these instruction files.
So you're you're generating these using
the the AI right now, right?
Like this front matter is is this front
matter like processed by by like the like
Right.
in like by a large language model like is
it processed as like natural language or
is it like does it have to follow like a
very specific formatting?
Um.
There's there's no there's very little
definition of the front matter.
The only required pieces of front that
I'm aware of are in prompt files.
OK.
You can specify a couple of different
pieces of of front matter that we've
defined in our prompt files.
We might be able to see something like
that.
Here's a prop file.
So these are the four pieces that you can
define in a prop file that actually will
be respected by the agent and used,
and that is the description and the model
that you actually want to use.
So we talked about the we can define here.
That we want this this prompt to be
executed using a specific model.
What what are the tools that are
available to it and when it's actually
executing and what aid,
what mode that we want to do this work in
as which is we, you know,
ask edit or agent or you could use a
custom.
Chat mode like we're working on creating
here in in the prompt file itself.
OK, so yeah,
this does sort of look like it follows
some very specific formatting.
So but like for the instruction files,
is is it sort of the same as the prompt
files or is it a little bit different
'cause like these?
Alright.
OK, go ahead.
But I'm just gonna elaborate more on my
Yeah, go ahead.
question, I think if it makes sense. Yeah,
cause like this looks,
Go ahead. Yeah.
this looks sort of similar,
but like at the same time like I'm not
really sure like is is this actually very
specifically parsed by?
Like as large like as natural language or
is it parsed by like like a deterministic
processor?
It's like I guess my question is more
Mm.
like if I wanted to write one of these.
Like,
is it OK to just use natural language or
does it have to be specific?
Like computer readable.
Um.
Yeah,
I I I don't know the specific answer to
that question.
The only ones that I'm aware of that are
that have to be are the ones that are in
that that prompt file that we talked
about, right.
Those are the only ones I'm aware of
OK.
right now.
These that we created in the instruction
files were basically helped to help us.
They keep track of some information and
and I'm sure that the the the the model
will read this information in as a part
of the context itself and applies to is I
think the only one here that I know that
is is processed by the the.
That's specifically defined as something
that belongs in an instruction file is
how to actually apply that instruction
file to to what's file, you know,
patterns that we want to use in order to
actually apply that.
The rest of these are just informational,
but since you're making reference to
other files,
they they may be included in the context.
That's something I would like.
Maybe I'll do some additional
experimentation on and and adjust my my
requirements for metadata based on what I
find there,
because it may be that you don't want to
include all of this in your context.
You may want to.
Maybe put it in a different location so
that it's not automatically.
Added to your context,
but I haven't seen any evidence that it
actually is.
Yeah, so yeah, I I yeah,
maybe I'm focusing too much on this part,
OK.
but uh.
Yeah, well,
you know I kind of added this because I
wanted to record information in each
generated file that would help me with
understanding when it was created,
who created it,
and then we'll get into the AI log.
Logs piece.
What was the conversation that actually
recorded? Not just the static output,
but how we act to that static output.
Some of the decisions were made,
et cetera,
to try to provide an audit trail of some
sort about how we used AI in this project.
Right.
What I hadn't considered is your question,
which is what is the essentially the
impact on the on the model by actually
having this in the file itself and I I I
would need to do a little bit more work
to kind of explain that.
So didn't quite answer your question,
I think, but I you know,
OK.
that's what I know about it so far.
Yeah,
it's it's like I'm trying to read the
documentation.
It's like very confusing to like actually
figure out exactly what this front matter
like does. But so I, you know,
Right.
maybe this is something they hide from us.
Right. I mean,
we might be able to do an experiment like.
What would be a good one here?
Uh.
Yeah,
like I I guess like an exper would be
like.
You know,
if you could somehow try to like flood
the the context of it to the point where
it starts hallucinating,
you could see like which you know.
If it,
I guess what I'm more interested in is
like when it actually reads the front
matter.
Does it read the front matter before the
information is tokenized?
Or does it does it have to tokenize this
front matter in order to actually see
what the file applies to?
Because if it has to read the file to
know what it applies to,
then it's like you can't even really
count on it to like even read.
Read that because it could start
hallucinating before it even gets to the
apply to.
If it's like already tokenized like 10
other or like maybe like 50 other
instruction files. I don't know.
Maybe this is not really that important
to talk about,
but it's just I can see a lot of
situations where you could get into a
bind just by.
Depending on like how they've actually
implemented this thing.
So here I'm trying to do a query that
specifically for the metadata.
Oh yeah.
But here it's just it's doing a.
Yeah,
so the idea would be if it's processing
these the actual metadata as part of the
the context,
then it should be able to find this.
If it's excluding this context in some or
this metadata in some way, then it would.
Miss it in some fashion, right?
Because we have to remember it's unless
it's telling us it's doing a.
It could be that it's actually doing a
just a regular search here.
Yeah, good.
Yeah,
it seems like it would be difficult to
actually figure out what's happening.
Maybe it's possible though.
Right. But uh, you know.
I don't know.
I don't think we need to spend that much
time thinking about this.
I was just curious if if you had like
knew the answer to that.
Yeah, I I don't,
but I'm interested in it because it would
it would affect how I I go about this
metadata.
You know my my goal with it is slightly
slightly different from what your
question is.
So I it may be something I need to
Yeah.
include and so I I'd be interested in
following up with you on this after the
class if you're.
If you want to kind of.
Yeah, maybe, maybe I'll look, look at it,
find some time. I don't know.
Compare notes and I can ask internally
within code.
Could there's some people that are that
may have some experience with that could
answer the question and actually have a a
meeting right after the course today with
with a number of those folks.
So I might just pose the question there
and get back to you.
Thanks.
Sure.
So it looks like we actually created
something.
So let's see what we did for sure our our
copilot custom chat mode instructions.
So let's preview this.
And open it into a new window.
So related documentation would be code
plot instructions,
the AI assisted output instructions and
prompt file instructions,
table of contents,
what are custom chat modes?
So this is the first thing that pops up
with this is that this isn't optimized
for AI like we talked.
About yesterday.
So it might be that we also ask for a AI
specific version of this, right?
So if we look at our prompt,
so create a an instruction file to guide
the creation of custom pilot chat modes.
That is.
Um, focused.
Oh.
AI assistance.
It's not terrible.
And optimized.
Minimize. Oh, it looks like it's.
Finally got an answer.
It's optimized to minimize.
So.
So it so, so you know,
what I'm thinking here is that if we
really don't want.
Our instruction or our chat mode files or
instruction files etcetera to to be
focused on human execution of our
interpretation of these in terms of
execution we can.
We can just ask it to and make this a
part of our initial instruction file
itself that would guide the creation of
all instruction files that they they
should automatically be optimized for AI
and and for to reduce or minimize the
tokens.
Because we may not need or want all of
this,
all this verbose definitions of what chat
modes are,
that will all be taken out of the
optimized version of that.
So with the key benefits of them,
when we should create them,
what the chat mode structure is,
is where we actually want to start to
define, you know,
where they get located in.
So chat modes with the idea that they're
going to be called, you know, domain.
It's what the main that they're in,
what purpose they're for.
We might have some example sample
examples of those and some templates for
actually creating them required file
names.
So example would be AI Documentation
Expert, Database Schema Designer.
Security vulnerability analyzer,
performance optimization.
But here we are actually defining some
front matter.
Yeah, so the ID would be a kebab case,
the name, the the version,
semantic versioning number, a description,
a category and some tags.
Looks like our instruction our AI
specific instruction file is available.
So AI the AI configuration model we're
using.
Uh.
So temperature,
we haven't talked about that.
What temperature is is basically how
precise.
We're expecting this model to produce so
and it's basically between zero and one
and the higher the number,
the more demanding of an of a output that
you're expecting.
So if you're just asking a kind of a
random question and.
Recruiting a chat mode that has some
expertise in, let's say, travel.
Travel itineraries you may want to.
It may be easier to or better to have a
lower temperature,
which allows it to to be a little bit
more flexible and creative about the
process where if we're generating code.
We might want it to be more,
have a higher temperature and be be more
precise about its output.
So here we're defining in the in the back
some tokens,
the response format with the persona it
looks like with the with the the role it
is that we're asking it to play the
expertise level.
Uh,
the communication style that the
specializations are.
Context management,
which meets what the main knowledge we're
we're interested in seeing the project
awareness repository context.
What tools that we we want to make
available to it are quality controls in
terms of compliance checks,
output validation, best practices,
error prevention, integration.
In terms of repository rules and team
standards,
so that the activate activation which is
the phrases that will trigger this
persona,
whether it should auto activate or not or
do you have to actually invoke it?
And the Providence notice that the only
one here that's only one I see that's
listed that's required is the that the AI
generated the model, the operator,
the chat ID and this was these.
These are things that we actually had
specified.
As a part of our as a part of our
requirements for creating instruction,
creating instruction files or creating
outputs.
Effective persona characteristics.
So this is kind of going through some of
the same things that we just discussed.
Here is a persona definition template.
So here we have the role identity,
the core expertise,
the communication style,
the key behaviors, the quality standards.
And then repository context integration
which is.
What the contact sources are,
the things that it should be including in
the in its context when it's executing
what the product project specific
knowledge is,
what the domain knowledge base is.
What the tool integration looks like,
our quantity standards,
a quantity checklist.
Uh, testing and validation.
And the validation checklist,
the deployment activation. How do we?
What it's basically telling us it wants
to put this in our chat modes,
our chat mode dot MD file into that chat
mode folder.
Yeah.
Maintenance and updates and so let's take
a look at this one and and go back and.
We also have the AI optimized version.
And we'll see that that it's quite a
different.
Oh,
here's those required front patterns that
we defined.
The the defining the purpose, the persona,
the context rules, the quality standards,
the the common patterns in terms of
domain expert code,
quality documentation where we put the
file. Here's our quality checklist.
And token optimization tips and then you
know where to put it.
So you see this is a.
Quite a bit shorter and more focused to
to the point.
So I my suggestion would be this is the
one we would take advantage of in our
project.
Any questions on that on those two
different,
the difference between those two?
Yeah.
So uh, let's undo this one.
And keep the AI assisted one.
All right. So yeah,
thinking about thinking in terms of our
project and what we're doing here,
what kind of chat modes can you envision
that we will need in order to help us
implement this application?
Maybe like an architecture or an
architect and then like a.
Yeah
Test tester, something like that.
OK.
I I would like to see a security persona.
OK, so we have um.
I wonder if we can create.
Um.
Custom chat modes.
4.
The.
Or a uh, security.
What would you call that role?
It was a security,
just a security expert or a security
analyst.
Well,
someone who enforces secure coding
practices.
So that would be either a security
analyst or a security architect or
something like that.
All right, for a security analyst.
Um for a?
Uh.
Software architect.
Already.
Uh, test automation.
Mhm.
All right,
that should be plenty for now and.
Let's see how we do with that.
Any any comments before we go set this
off?
Because this probably will take a little
while.
I think that's good enough for now.
I didn't have anything for the query,
but I am curious,
would product owner be a possible chat
mode that would be of benefit?
Um.
Yeah, potentially. I mean,
what would you have that product owner do?
Well,
I I was just thinking if it had access
and context to requirements and whatnot,
it could analyze to ensure that as
development progresses,
those requirements were consistently met
before, you know,
merging or something like that.
That makes sense.
That make no, no,
I mean it it's a a a good.
Oh, it's just a well thought.
I I think it's a good idea.
You particularly if we go back to the
beginning of this process,
if we noticed in our the instruction
files for the actual implementation,
there was a I think a comment in here.
It might have been in the.
Um.
No,
I was looking for the requirements file.
Is that the one?
Yeah,
there's a calculator requirements
Uh.
document.
Oh yeah, thank you.
That's what I wanted to look for.
And I think there was a comment in here.
That when we got into the.
It might have been in the more general
one that was human readable or more
targeted toward a human where it actually
it actually mentioned the style that
we're using for the defining of the
requirements.
OK.
So this would the idea would be is that
this this custom chat mode for a product
owner would have a a good understanding,
have an expertise either in a particular
domain.
Right.
So if your if your domain is you know in
OK.
the in some area of the healthcare
industry,
you could define a product owner that has
that level of domain in a chat
understanding in a chat mode and then and
has an understanding of how to define
requirements.
That might improve the AI's ability to
produce requirements that fit within
those domains.
You can define what knowledge that it
actually has,
so I don't think that's a bad idea.
Thanks.
All right, so we have new chat modes.
Looks like we have some.
So let's see.
Let's take a look at the security
analysts.
Right. So I'm definitely thinking.
Although this is not too bad.
Specialized for specialized mode for
comprehensive security analysis,
vulnerability assessment,
security code reviews,
focusing on identifying and mitigating
risk.
The persona is a senior security analyst
and penetration tester.
The expertise is in OWASP top ten
vulnerability assessments,
threat modeling, compliance frameworks,
and the behavior is always prioritize
security,
considering attack vectors and validating
against security standards.
So it looks to analyze code for OWASP top
10 vulnerabilities.
Considering security implications of all
recommendations,
validate against relevant compliance
frameworks, access to threat landscape,
threat and attack factors,
prioritizing the security over
convenience.
And then here's some listing those.
Quality standards.
So how do I how do I apply this persona
to something in the source code?
How do I say, hey, security analyst,
go analyze my code,
That's a great question.
show me what the problem is and let's fix
it.
You you go here and she's an agent,
which is the security analyst agent,
and now you've defined now you are
revoking that persona.
OK.
So I think what we didn't create here is
actually somebody that implements code,
right?
OK, so these are equivalents of agents,
right?
Yes, the the custom.
You don't just talk to them,
they do stuff. OK, got it.
Well, yeah, these are all chat modes.
These are the three built in ones, right?
Mm.
And these are the custom ones.
And if you choose configure, which we did,
I did here a second ago,
it'll you can say,
I want to create a new custom chat mode,
right? And it looks like it's.
OK, so in the definition of the chat mode,
chat mode,
I specify if it's supposed to just answer
questions or actually code for me.
Is that right?
Um.
So.
Let's. Well, this one is more.
It seems like it's more.
Optimize for answering or doing reviewing
code.
Yeah,
that's what I'm trying to figure out.
So the way I would.
Is this a security analyst more like an
ask or more like an agent?
To do.
Well,
I think think about it in that layered
approach. We we start with saying, OK,
using this particular chat mode for the
security analyst,
I want to execute a prompt that actually
does something right.
And when you execute that prompt,
I want you to follow these instructions
when you do it.
That's the way in which you kind of you
should kind of think about it, right?
So with this,
if we were to specify the security
analyst,
we could say something like do we have a
prompt for this and what should we do?
Oh, we have the check context prompts. Oh,
we could.
I wonder if we could do that.
But that would be of any value.
You could do something like I want to do
the execute the chat.
Context prompt.
And.
Identify.
Any.
Uh gaps.
Yeah, the our instruction file.
And make that security gaps.
But what does it mean to have a security
gap in an instruction file?
Well,
you know this is a little convoluted of
an example because it's the only prompt I
had available at the moment.
We could drag in some other prompts and
have it done,
but the idea would be we have instruction
files that tell it how to go and about
what our expectations are.
What our expectations are for
implementing things, right?
So those are targeted at doing specific
things for us like a creating instruction
file or we have some for creating
implementing C# code.
OK,
so this is going to improve the
And sure.
instruction file.
Now I'm just trying to figure out how to
how to say something like OK,
security analyst,
go figure out all the problems in my code
and then hand over this list of tasks to
the coder and make it happen.
So I don't want to just flag the issues,
I also want to fix the issues.
What?
Can that be done with the security
analyst chat mode or do I need a separate
Right, so.
chat mode for a coder that's going to
look different?
Well, we're not asking.
We're not asking the security analysts to
actually write any code.
We are asking it to review code, right?
And here I'm just looking at the
instruction file to have a more concrete
example if we had a prompt which was a.
A prompt to review code, right?
Then we could say using the security
analyst,
I want you to review the code base.
Well,
we can do that without a prompt file by
just adding that to our prompts, right?
So we could say.
Or instead of just using the the the
prompt file,
we could say just use the code base.
Well, we have. We do have a.
We asked for a code reviewer chat mode,
but no, that's a different thing.
We we want the code base itself.
Oh, nice.
Start again.
And this might be something that we need
to add to our.
To our our chat mode. But anyway,
let's say identify any security gaps.
in our application.
And here we're not giving it a prop file,
but we could create a prop file for this,
which would be a little bit more
comprehensive,
but it should be able to do.
Yeah, the same thing.
Yeah, that's interesting.
It's still thinking. I think it in.
The instruction file.
So let's let me clear the context and try
again.
Still seems to be a bit confused about
what we're asking it to do.
So.
There that it's close.
Oh, these.
So now it's focusing on.
Um.
It still looks like it's just
regurgitating what we have in our
instruction files.
I think I know problem.
Can anybody venture a guess on why it's
having difficulty?
I don't know. We weren't specific enough.
The context is off.
No. Any other guesses?
Yes.
I I forget what the original prompt was
after all that all those answers.
We said review the application code,
identify the security gaps and.
Hello.
Yes.
Yeah, that that's kind of asking a lot.
The answer's a lot simpler than you than
you than you might think.
Is it referring to itself?
Well, have we even implemented?
Bingo.
Then we have no implementation here.
There's no code to actually evaluate,
so we'd have to.
We'd have to switch back to our main
branch and have it,
have it look at that code in order for us
to get an output. So.
We got a little ahead of ourselves here.
Oh.
Let's go ahead and see if we can do that.
Well, before we do that,
we should probably do a commit to this
branch.
Mhm.
Since we've got a lot of changes here.
All right,
so now we can go back to our main branch.
Which should have all of our
imlementation now.
And uh, see if we can try that same. Oh,
you know what we're missing now?
We have to go back to the other branch
and get our.
Or chat mode.
This it still shows it as selectable
within the the chat prompt.
Does it still hold a reference or does it
have to be within the directory?
It would have to be in the directory.
OK.
So here's our chat modes.
We want to grab the security analyst one
or since we just take them all.
And.
See if we can get them into main.
So under GitHub we don't have chat modes,
so let's add that folder.
And.
So no,
we had to put them someplace else to get
them or cherry pick them from the other.
Uh, the branch.
So let's go back here.
And.
I'm just gonna stash them.
I don't know what can we.
I'm just going to put them in a temp
folder.
For now.
Alright,
so I've done that so we can now change
our.
Back to main.
And then I could add these to our.
Uh, to our I didn't. I didn't.
Let's create this folder under GitHub.
And see if we can add those files there.
All right.
So now we should be able to select our
select our agents,
which is our security app and list and
see if we can identify any security gaps.
Let's clear the chat window.
And.
Go ahead and try.
It.
There, so now we're getting some output.
All right, so.
We now have vulnerabilities and of course
we can then say create.
The issues.
4.
These findings.
And we had um.
Now we have an issues folder, yeah,
and it should be able to create new
issues.
Or our security gaps?
So you know in the case of you know if if
we had for instance a a connection stat
or a tool for working with Azure DevOps
and we can include that in the tools that.
That we've defined.
And so that it will actually take
advantage of that tool and then we could
add to the prompts to actually in
addition to do the code review just to
actually create the issues themselves.
And that would go directly into our into
the back into our our work item tracking
system prioritizing the the critical
issues so that they would be included in
the the next set of changes that we make
to the app.
How does that look for you, Peter?
Sounds good to me.
Cool. Alright, so let's then. Um.
And.
No, I don't want to commit these changes.
We got them in the other branch,
so let's just revert these.
John, actually we we would like to,
you know,
pull the latest of everything you have at
some point.
Right. So we we have a.
We have two the the the calculator 2
branch here that will contain the the our
second implementation of the calculator,
right?
Oh, OK.
And then we have and then we have a main,
we have the first,
the first implementation of the
calculator.
So you could you'll have access to both
of those implementations and it's in the
second version of the calculator that we
have these additional chat modes.
So.
Are we on the?
OK,
as long as you push the branch or the
latest of the branch when you are done
and we can pull it down.
Right. Yeah. So here we have those same.
So we'll we've already committed these
changes. We don't have any.
These changes are already been pushed to
the repo, so they're available to you.
OK. Thanks.
All right,
so I think we we talked about we we I
think we're gonna want to create this
chat mode for.
Um.
It's our coder.
So all of this is, yeah,
there's our custom chat mode.
So.
Uh.
Create a custom chat mode for a.
Uh.
Let's see what we get for this.
And of course, you know,
I would try to make this caveat as often
as I can is that if we were in the
process of of getting ready to apply this
or create a new application with this,
we would review these.
Chat mode files and our prompt files and
our instruction files more thoroughly
than what we're doing here, but.
And and and do some.
I would do some testing with them as well.
In terms of actually asking him to create
an application,
maybe a little bit more sophisticated
than what we're trying to do now.
And make sure that we're getting the kind
of output that we want before we,
you know,
kind of a prototype before we would
actually implement something that we have
to maintain.
All right, so let's look at this one.
And preview mode.
Good.
And I was gonna make a comment that our
I'm starting to lean towards in our AI
assisted output instructions that or.
Or possibly the instructions for.
Creating chat modes for creating
instruction files and for creating
prompts that they the output of these be
optimized for AI and for minimizing
tokens and then.
That way the the ones that we have, well,
all everything that we all create would
always be optimized as opposed to.
Getting a lot of extra human oriented
content.
So it's a specialized mode for advanced
software development.
Quality code, quality assessment,
performance optimization,
technical mentoring with a focus on
maintainable scalable solutions.
The role is a senior software engineer,
expertise in advanced programming,
code quality, performance optimization,
technical leadership and mentoring.
Behaviors to think pragmatic
pragmatically,
balancing technical excellence with
delivery, mentor through examples,
focus on long-term maintainability.
So context rules prioritize code quality
and maintainability over quick fixes.
Consider performance.
Of design decisions.
Provide mentoring guidance and clear
explanations.
Suggest refactoring opportunities when
reviewing the code.
Balance the technical debt with future
delivery.
Emphasize testing strategies and
automation.
And consider cross team collaboration,
some quality standards,
some interaction patterns.
So.
Um.
The idea here in interaction patterns
that the that a signature software
engineer would interact with the code in
several different ways.
One is a a a code review mode which would
find actionable feedback,
a mentoring mode which would break down
complex concepts into digestible parts.
A problem solving mode for looking at
dealing with troubleshooting or and the
like and then a technical leadership mode.
Focus areas I think are are good code
quality, performance testing, refactoring,
mentoring,
documentation and collaboration.
Some activation examples are could you
review this code for performance issues?
I would I seen your engineer approach
this refactoring.
What would be the best way to mentor a
junior developer on this?
How do me how to help me identify
technical debt?
What are the trade-offs between these two
approaches?
So that's the senior developer chat mode.
And then if we were to look at the,
let's say the test engineer chat mode.
Control shift E I can learn that.
So here we're specialized modes for test
automation, strategy, development,
framework selection,
comprehensive quality assurance and
maintainability, maintaining test suites.
Expertise is to test automation
frameworks, CICD integration,
performance testing, API testing.
Test strategy and the behavior focuses on
test maintainability,
maximizing coverage efficiency and
integration with the development workflow.
We want to and design maintainable and
scalable automation.
So I think these you know these chat
modes are I think demonstrate how we can
focus on specific personas and and
provide them with specific behaviours
that they're that we're looking to try to
leverage.
In our cogeneration.
All right. Any comments on any of that?
Well, while you're doing this,
I noticed in some of your code you had a
So um.
definition of Max tokens.
I think you already I think specified a
cost function of certain.
Instruction files,
let's call them in general.
Right.
So that triggered that triggered a
question from my perspective.
How do I monitor the cost of prompting
effectively or coding like this?
Imagine that.
Now we're so excited and I like picking
on Jake.
So I say Jake is start generating
thousands of prompts a day and I need to
pay for it or Teleflex needs to pay for
it. What is your recommendation for cost?
Monitoring and trending and making sure
that we stay within the budget or I can
simly have a budget allocated to it and I
can support this.
Well, you know,
depending on what what version that you
deploy,
whether that be the enterprise version,
the business version, there's a a talk,
there's a premium request allotment sort
of associated with that.
That you're allowed to execute per month
and that's down here.
It will show you that that I'm 62%.
So I feel like I'm right now based on my
current uses,
I'm not going to exceed that, but.
You can actually then add a a manage or
manage your paid requests,
which means if you start to exceed that
that that that limit, you'll start to go.
Mhm.
You'll actually have to pay additional
money to.
Right.
So that's your.
This is your primary cost vector, right?
Mhm.
How many premium requests that you're
executing?
What?
Yeah, is there a way to monitor this?
So if for example 1 user you know uses
Yeah, yes.
all the allocated premium tokens in in a
day and somebody else it's takes a a
Yes.
month.
So you know how to how to gain visibility.
Yeah,
there's there are in the in the in the
the business and enterprise versus their
administrative reports that you can run
that tells you who's using how many of
these premium requests and will give you
Mhm.
a a way to monitor that usage to make
sure that you stay within the.
Conflict.
Stay within the limits that you can so.
OK, all right.
This is this is not the purpose is to
limit,
but to simply estimate and and you know,
make sure that there are no some endless
loop somewhere running and generating
incredible amount of of prompts.
Well, you're right. And it, you know,
yeah,
I think the idea within with an
enterprise or a business license that
that that limit is very,
very high depending upon the number.
So with the with the goal of allowing as
many developers to be able to take
Mhm.
advantage of the tool as possible and
stay.
Absolutely.
Right, so um.
I have a pro plus description that I'm
using right now and I've not yet I've
Mhm.
exceeded that allotment.
So you you would assume that or I would
Right.
assume that you the allotment at that
point would be even better for a business
or enterprise system,
but it's something the more.
Mhm.
Something to monitor,
but that's the only thing I'm aware of
that's gonna increase cost.
The other limits are what we talked about
Mhm.
in terms of optimizing the amount of
tokens that requires you to actually
execute that prompt and trying to stay
within the.
Window that's available to you that
doesn't incur any additional costs
Mhm.
monetarily when you actually see that
limit,
but it does degrade the performance of
the AI,
and so that's a reason that we want.
Understood.
OK. Appreciate it. Thank you.
Yes, Sir.
Other questions?
All right,
then why don't we start to leverage our
chat modes and see if we can actually get
them to do something for us in terms of,
well, how about the?
We could ask the SAR architect to review.
Well,
we actually haven't implemented any code
yet, so it's.
And so maybe we hold off on that.
And just go to the senior software
engineer and say we have our requirements
file someplace, so let's go grab that.
And there, so we have that.
So we know here we have um.
A list of.
A basic operations.
So we could say.
Uh.
Um.
Implement.
Um.
This doesn't look.
So.
You're looking to implement code.
Right. Um, the recent.
And I I thought we had it broken down by
a vertical slice plan.
Right. That's what I'm looking for.
I see here the calculator requirements,
but where's our plan?
Oh, I know where it is. It's here.
Yeah,
that was what I was concerned about is I
wanted to execute this in terms of those
vertical slices.
The last thing we did here was to add the
showcases, but if we go up and say, OK,
here's vertical slice.
Um.
Number one.
That's two so.
There we go.
So we would then say just say implement
slice #1.
Oh.
Number enter results.
Now if we go and look here at the changes,
we can see.
Oh, it hasn't pushed these files yet,
so why don't we go ahead and commit these?
Updates so I got updated the readme file
for our senior software developer in chat
mode.
And then we can.
A monitor for additional changes.
I think you might need to enable the code
editing for this agent 'cause it seems
like by default like all the tools are
disabled.
Yeah, I noticed that as well. Um.
So it's going to add the create,
edit and tools.
To the front matter to allow them to.
Yeah,
you probably have to switch to the that
built in agent to actually make these
edits 'cause the senior software engineer
doesn't have the ability right now.
Thanks.
Yeah, I just ran into the same problem,
so.
So we see this.
And add it to each of the chat modes.
And we may want to actually restrict,
you know, some chat modes,
maybe the security analyst one just be
would allow it to create issues but not
change any code.
All right, so it's happy with that.
Let's make another commit while we're
here.
So we can just see the code modifications
that get made as opposed to the changes
to the chat mode.
Uh, go ahead.
All right, so we can now go back.
Let's clear our context completely and
see if we can implement slice one.
So here it's read our vertical slices
plan.
It's read our AI assisted software
development project.
It's also read in our well,
I I saw it that had it read in our AI
instructions. Yeah, that's right.
It's created 8 todos.
Yeah,
need to update my PowerShell to a minor
version.
We can close GitHub.
And we'll see. Oh,
it wants us me to allow it to create a
new solution. So let's do that.
What's to make some directories?
So go ahead and allow the command make
directory.
So let's allow net new.
And we can see over here that.
We have an application,
we have a class file,
we have a test folder.
It's installing the Maui templates,
which I don't have installed.
It's created a test file.
So yeah, it encounters problems, but uh.
It can recognize that within the the
terminal window and it can then make
adjustments to try to address those
issues.
Mm.
So.
It says it does.
It has a problematic test file.
Might be able to.
See what the issue is with that file.
Uh, clear than you get source.
Went through.
It's still having issues creating the
test file.
This is like the third or fourth day in a
row that we've got a new version of
GitHub Copilot.
And we can see here that we have um.
The number of 43 different files have
been added.
I'm just wondering.
What it's working on looks like it's
still creating in the step of creating
the Maui solution structure.
Mhm.
Uh, they're finally moved on.
It's created our core test file.
Who wants to update the?
Test project file.
Well, this thing is working.
Your comment triggers a thought because
we are in the regulated industry.
We're effectively to use tools like this
one.
We need to have them validated if the
version of the tool.
Changes on a daily.
We simply cannot keep up with those
changes and have them validated on a spot
on a daily basis.
Usually how this is solved is when we
simply pick a version and we stick with
it,
or we would have to develop some sort of
validation scheme that would allow us to
pick up new versions, maybe on a,
you know, weekly or monthly basis.
Any any recommendations that you've
observed and seen from regulated
industries?
Yeah,
that's not a question I've investigated,
but my thought on that is there's really
three different things that you're trying
Mhm.
to control for there.
The the first one is the the actual
Mhm.
copilot.
User interface that with all the buttons
and the things on it.
That's partly I think what it's actually
trying to update.
M.
Then there is a then there is a ChatGPT
model that which actually controls the
underlying behaviour of the.
Of the copilot interface itself.
And then there's the model that you're
selecting to use when you actually give a
give it a suggestion or a prompt to
actually do something, right?
Those are those are three different
Mhm.
things and they can vary independently.
The model update,
the interface changes and the underlying
model underneath the copilot interface is
what we're seeing released here,
but the other models can also be.
Updated individually and those will show
up in this list where these will be
updated to new new versions on occasion.
So you could you could lock this down by
Mhm.
saying we're only going to use Cloud
Sonnet 4 or so Cloud Sonnet 4.5.
Right.
For the entire project and and you can
specify that we've seen in the prompt
files and in the chat mode files and and
other things where we can actually pin it
to a particular version and I think in
the administrative interface for the.
For GitHub Copilot you have the ability
to say these only these models are are
are going to be available to people to
select from.
So that way you can actually pin it down
at a at a much more.
Or enterprise by fashion,
but in terms of in terms of pinning down
Mhm, right, mhm.
the actual copilot tool.
Is that do you feel like that's really
something that's going to be an issue?
Well,
in general we'll have to validate all the
tools.
So we'll have to identify the methods for
validating it,
meaning and and with all the challenges,
because as you told us,
it's not deterministic.
So how can we then use this to generate,
you know, the code?
That it's deterministic at the end.
Or we could say whatever it's it's
generates. This is fine,
but determinism inequalities is later on
picked up when we actually verify and
validate the code.
But mhm.
But can I can I jump in here?
Sorry to interrupt.
Yeah.
I I think we should just focus on what
comes out of these tools as a result,
like the source code gets checked in.
We are going to be reviewing the code
that gets generated.
So we we do we actually need to validate
different versions of the text editor
that we use to.
Write that code and I didn't think we
would.
So I'm basically I'm treating this whole
thing as a text editor.
Mhm.
It produces code and then we use that
code. But in terms of, you know,
did did I write that code by hand from
scratch versus did Copilot generate it?
It doesn't matter because we review the
result.
And that gets merged in after the review,
so.
Yeah, it it could, it could be.
We we just have to make sure that this is
Mhm.
So, so I think,
I think we just we just need to explain
aligned with.
how all this works and then I think it's
going to be fine. So in other words,
we can say OK,
we are using Visual Studio Code,
but maybe we don't need to get into the
specifics of which Visual Studio Code
extension.
We are using to type up this text.
Mm.
Example on any tools that we're using as,
let's say embedded software compiler. Yes,
we need to validate the compiler.
OK, that that is valid.
Just.
Right, so as a point of reference, right?
And does it really compile and produces a
valid output? And yeah,
it it it sounds ridiculous,
but that's I think the requirement here.
Mike,
chime in if I'm just violating some
design controls here and expectations of
this, but I'm just trying to.
Bring awareness that we we cannot just
really use it.
We need to just provide some sort of
boundaries and guidance on what is it
that we do. And yeah,
we can define how we validate and make
sure that that this thing, as I said,
it could generate whatever code,
but later on we simply.
Verify and validate this code that that
it's functionally correct and manages the
risks and meets the user needs and the
requirements and et cetera.
Yeah, I think,
I mean this is not really a a compiler.
We're not really deploying,
putting something into into a production
Yeah, yeah.
environment that that could affect the
behavior of the application or anything
like that. You know,
so my my take on that.
That would be as it is more equivalent to
a code editor is a something that factors
Mhm, mhm.
into the runtime of the application
itself and that there's many and you have
many validation steps which are both
automated.
Yeah, that's fair. Mhm.
Yeah,
I think that's a good approach because if
you think about it,
let's say you're using a static analysis
tool to verify the the accuracy of the
your application in some sense,
then that tool,
the output of that tool is something that
you want to validate, right?
Mm-hmm. Yes.
So you know,
so the idea is as long as you have
mitigations for making sure that the code
that gets produced gets validated
properly before it gets deployed,
the the who created the code or whether
it was created through an AI or not,
I think is.
Is something that you can control for.
Mhm.
Very well.
So that would that would might be a a
strategy that you could take advantage of.
So what's what do we?
Yeah, I think it would, yeah,
it would have to be captured on a
software development plan to some degree
and those steps would have to be outlined.
So, but it's a fair point. Appreciate it.
Thank you.
Yeah, sure. You know you can.
You can probably work some of that into
Sure.
the actual the prompt files,
the instruction files and the chat mode
files to to to provide you with the kind
of.
Audible information that you need in
order to be able to prove that this was
done in a consistent way,
and that might go a long way towards
helping you out in that point.
So.
It's installing some tooling here.
That it didn't find on my machine,
so let's take a little while.
Yeah,
maybe we should have restricted this in
just a Windows application, but.
We've gotten it.
We're we're headed down the stop now.
Is if there's any more questions we can
answer.
We have a couple of minutes before lunch.
Right. If not,
why don't we just break for lunch now
then and we can let this.
Do do what it needs to do and we can come
back and take a look at what it produces.